+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-17"
description = "FX: It's co-location, but not as we know it"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "FX: It's co-location, but not as we know it"
type = "post"
+++

#  FX: It's co-location, but not as we know it

COPYING AND DISTRIBUTING ARE PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMISSION OF THE
PUBLISHER: [ SContreras@Euromoney.com][1]

By:  Paul Golden  Published on:  Monday, June 10, 2019

Space constraints in data centres, coupled with cost considerations,
have encouraged firms to seek creative solutions to the challenge of
getting access to the main liquidity hubs.

What price low latency? That is the question that more and more market
participants are grappling with as they seek to jump on the co-location
bandwagon. Data-centre access doesn't come cheap, but there are folk who
can help out.

Falling connectivity costs have continued to drive demand for co-
location. Data-centre providers have responded to growing demand by
opening new floors at established locations such as LD4 in London and
NY4 in New York and creating new campuses on adjacent sites.

![John Owens 160x186][2]  
  
---  
_John Owens,  
Transaction  
Network Services_  
  
But the cost of space where the main liquidity hubs are located is a
considerable investment. As a result there has been an expansion in the
number of managed service providers operating a virtualized
infrastructure-as-a-service offering to help FX businesses access these
data centres at a lower cost, says John Owens, an electronic trading
technology specialist and former VP EMEA sales at Transaction Network
Services.

“A managed service provider will typically provide a suite of services
including rack space, power, servers and communications, eliminating
procurement headaches and capital expenditure requirements for the FX
broker,” he explains.

Mitch Fonseca, Cyxtera’s VP of data-centre products, says his firm’s on-
demand co-location solution can reduce total cost of ownership by as
much as 50%.

“The ability to provision interconnection and dedicated infrastructure
as needed eliminates overspend associated with designing to peak
capacity and deploying unused or underused hardware,” he adds.

### Innovation

Fonseca believes that while pricing for the European co-location market
has remained stable over the last 12 months, limitations on the
availability of space will drive pricing up over time and that
innovation is the only option for firms looking to reduce their costs.

![Mitch Fonseca 160x186][3]  
  
---  
  
 _Mitch Fonseca,  
Cyxtera_  
  
Asian-based brokers looking to expand in Europe [have previously been
identified][4] as the main drivers of increased demand for FX co-
location.

The first wave of demand can be broadly classified as major banks
establishing regional presences in non-domestic locations, for example
Asian banks in Europe. But Owens notes that a subsequent wave of second-
tier providers looking to emulate the strategy of their larger rivals
has been underpinning continued demand for co-location services.

Gordon McArthur, CEO of Beeks Financial Cloud, agrees that Asia remains
a big source of growth, but is more intrigued by the Monetary Authority
of Singapore’s efforts to attract the large matching engines. Earlier
this week, Standard Chartered announced plans to establish an FX
e-trading and pricing engine in Singapore by the first quarter of 2020.

“The growth of Singapore is intriguing,” says McArthur. “It will become
the Asian hub of choice for FX liquidity trading over the next few
years.”

Proximity co-location and [optimize](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/17/added-genetic-algorithm-for-trading/)d application design and network paths
have helped firms realize significant improvements in latency – and both
network providers and server and switch manufacturers are expected to
continue to make speed improvements to their equipment.

### Evolutionary

However, Owens suggests that these improvements will be evolutionary
rather than revolutionary.

“Some firms who pride themselves on being at the forefront of technology
will continue to invest in the fastest and highest capacity systems, but
this approach demands deep pockets and is not for everybody,” he says.

![Gordon McArthur 160x186][5]  
  
---  
  
 _Gordon McArthur,  
Beeks Financial  
Cloud_  
  
Even the term latency can be problematic. It is defined as the time
delay between sending a message to the market and it being received and
processed by the exchange (although in some cases the time it takes for
the exchange to acknowledge receipt is also accounted for).

The authors of [a research paper published last November][6] suggest
this definition is narrow because it only takes into account hardware
capacity and co-location to measure latency and ignores other factors
that affect how quickly the trader can process and react to market
information before sending an instruction to the exchange.

Of course, not all FX market participants require direct point-to-point
connectivity in the same data centre and are willing to sacrifice
milliseconds by getting access via ‘peripheral’ centres. [And as we have
previously reported][7], speed is not everything.

McArthur observes that the last 18 months has seen the emergence of
field-programmable gate array (FPGA) – hardware-accelerated network
cards that process transactions on the card to speed up the process – in
the FX space.

“With direct connectivity you can shave some microseconds here and there
and we have seen clients investing in cutting-edge hardware devices and
network cards, but we are close to the limits of latency,” he concludes.
“This is exacerbated by [exchanges introducing speed bumps][8], a trend
that is likely to become more commonplace.”

   1. mailto:SContreras@Euromoney.com
   2. /v-a16497dcada428e984ac09a334ca8afc/Media/images/euromoney/people-26/John Owens 160x186.jpg
   3. /v-7ba6c781612dcb5331fc17824b5089ee/Media/images/euromoney/people-26/Mitch Fonseca 160x186.jpg
   4. www.euromoney.com/article/b15fvdz7pw8qy5/fx-confluence-of-conditions-boosts-co-location-providers
   5. /v-0f200c4b8f3c2e60953bddd75b9f927a/Media/images/euromoney/people-26/Gordon McArthur 160x186.jpg
   6. poseidon01.ssrn.com/delivery.php?ID=019121024026084009083119092105120111054025070085022092087021091091123072023066026075114117055044051060015073084104000088094112016084042033015118110100082002028125104019077079093088096119123000126110112010109079122029123090025087114112120081007005073127&EXT=pdf
   7. www.euromoney.com/article/b147r1tn890xxq/speed-is-losing-its-edge-in-fx
   8. www.euromoney.com/article/b1bf43v1htgmv1/speed-restrictions-give-fx-market-participants-the-hump