+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-07"
description = "Fall in corporate FX activity moves emphasis away from London fix"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Fall in corporate FX activity moves emphasis away from London fix"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

In a bid to assess the impact of market stress on liquidity, Mosaic
Smart Data, a trading analytics company, recently aggregated volume data
from foreign exchange settlement firm CLS over two periods, from January
1, 2018, to February 26, 2020, and from February 27 to March 26.

The study found that FX spot transactions were up 41% in March compared
with the previous month, with monthly records for EUR/USD, USD/JPY,
GBP/USD, USD/CHF and USD/CAD.

However, the more interesting finding was a tendency for the liquidity
curve to flatten at 4pm GMT for EUR/USD trading and for a more even
distribution of GBP/USD and USD/JPY liquidity during the London
afternoon trading session than would be typical.

  

> Currencies of oil-dependent economies have also been hurt by the
unprecedented fall in the price of oil  
>

>

>  - Simon Manwaring, NatWest Markets

  

The data showed that the response of market participants to [increased
volatility][1] and stress was to be more active throughout the day
rather than relying on the London fix, in a bid to control trading
costs.

![Masami_Johnstone-CLS-160x186.png][2]  
  
---  
  
 _Masami Johnstone,  
CLS_  
  
“This resulted in a wider, more even distribution of market liquidity, a
pattern that so far has remained consistent through April,” says Masami
Johnstone, head of information services at CLS.

Less focus on the fix is understandable. The main users of fixings are
those for whom benchmarks are most relevant, typically asset managers
and leading corporates.

For asset managers, it has been pretty much business as usual during the
past couple of months, even though the assets they manage might have
experienced substantial volatility. A typical flow would be US equities
down 20%, European equities up 10%. Somewhere in the portfolio
rebalancing process there would be a euro/dollar trade.

But for corporates, it’s a little more complicated, explains Simon
Manwaring, head of currencies trading at NatWest Markets.

“I was talking to the head of treasury at a major retailer recently and
he said he had a demand problem in that he didn’t know how much of what
customers would buy in an online-only environment, as well as a supply
problem in that he didn’t know what would come into his warehouses and
when,” he says.

That is a familiar story for corporates in [the age of coronavirus][3].
It has disrupted the usually predictable process of corporate cash flows
and therefore reduced corporate FX activity.

### Usual patterns

The availability of tried-and-tested mechanisms for what to do in
[positive and negative risk environments][4] means that the FX market
has not seen any particularly unexpected trading patterns, even though
the [impact of coronavirus][1] has not been consistent across countries
and regions.

CLS saw an increase of $166 billion in EUR/USD traded volumes in the
first quarter of the year, which coincided with Italy’s lockdown. During
this period, trading activity associated with the sell-off in euros was
dominated by the buy side and by funds.

![Simon Manwaring 160x186][5]  
  
---  
  
 _Simon Manwaring,  
NatWest Markets_  
  
“Money would be expected to flow into dollars and Swiss francs, and away
from emerging market currencies, and that has been the story of this
crisis as well,” says Manwaring. “Currencies of [oil-dependent
economies][6] have also been hurt by the unprecedented fall in the price
of oil.”

The recent high-volatility environment has shown that platform liquidity
is not as durable as might have been expected. It has led to a
substantial widening of bid-offer spreads and a reduction in the depth
of the market, says Paul Matherne, head of FX trading at BNY Mellon
Markets.

“Last year, a good amount of volume could go through at top of book [the
best bid/ask],” he explains. “Now we are in an environment where top of
book is more shallow.”

Will the market return to normal when coronavirus restrictions are
lifted? Matherne says this depends on the definition of normal.

“The period of low volatility was prolonged, but it was not typical of
the longer-term deal environment of the FX market,” he says.

“We are familiar with the low-volatility environment, because it is
still fresh in our minds and lasted for a long time, but it is more
realistic to expect the market to settle somewhere in the middle.”

### US to benefit

![Vikas Srivastava 160x186][7]  
  
---  
  
 _Vikas Srivastava,  
Integral_  
  
Non-bank market makers have stepped up their trading activities, and
with many of these firms located in the US it is likely that region will
see some gains in market share.

That is the view of Vikas Srivastava, chief revenue officer at Integral,
who reckons that as traders settle into working remotely in a more
distributed way – including distributed working across trading floors –
there could be a reduction in the time dedicated to a given trading
floor or a specific time zone.

“This may mean we start to see a more even distribution of trading and
market making capability across time zones and trading floors in the
future,” he says.

  

   1. www.euromoney.com/article/b1l3zz4ry0lszj/foreign-exchange-banks-deal-with-volatility-from-home
   2. /v-48cec79153e2205951b181df9483441d/Media/images/euromoney/people-29/Masami_Johnstone-CLS-160x186.png
   3. www.euromoney.com/the-big-stories/coronavirus
   4. www.euromoney.com/article/b1dybnkn8ks6jv/fx-making-the-best-of-a-bad-situation
   5. /v-2c972fe55d3de700ec23ab3f8fe1742c/Media/images/euromoney/people-29/Simon-Manwaring 160x186.jpg
   6. www.euromoney.com/article/b12klbvscj1npr/oil-special-focus
   7. /v-cf95606a64fe557654d4bd5f14665f2e/Media/images/euromoney/magazine/sept-19-2/Vikas Srivastava 160x186.jpg