+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-29"
description = "Eurex joins the cross-currency swap clearing party"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Eurex joins the cross-currency swap clearing party"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

![euros_dollars_pounds_notes-780.png][1]

  

Eurex Clearing recently cleared its long-awaited first cross-currency
swap transaction.

The company only offers interdealer clearing of EUR/USD and GBP/USD
cross-currency swaps, although it says it plans to introduce client
clearing next year.

Cross-currency swap clearing is not a new development – Hong Kong
Exchanges and Clearing (HKEX) subsidiary OTC Clear has been clearing
USD-HKD swaps for more than 18 months.

However, as the product becomes more established, other clearing houses
can be expected to follow suit.

In turn, the number of swaps covered will increase, especially if market
participants perceive a notable credit or settlement risk to these
transactions, which combine an FX product and an interest-rate product.

![Jon-Vollemaere2017-160x186][2]  
  
---  
  
 _Jon Vollemaere,  
R5FX_  
  
[R5FX][3] CEO JonVollemaere notes that his platform has always used a
central counterparty clearing (CCP) model because problems with
bilateral credit are even more concentrated in emerging markets.

“Whether in places like China – where netting isn’t currently recognised
– or India and Brazil, where risk amongst both resident and non-resident
traders is reduced by using a CCP model, providing customers with the
choice of either cleared or uncleared is the way the market is moving,”
he says.

“If it works for emerging market currencies, it will certainly work for
the G10.”

![Paddy-Boyle-160x186][4]  
  
---  
  
 _Paddy Boyle,  
ForexClear_  
  
The progress of FX clearing to date has been driven by market
participants identifying substantial benefits, says PaddyBoyle, head of
ForexClear [at LCH][5].

“With no clearing mandates in FX, there would be no clearing without
benefits accruing to users,” he says. “The 10,000 or so trades we clear
every day speak for themselves on this point.”

### Competition

The interbank structure is highly competitive, which has kept spreads
and costs low. The extent to which central clearing results in increased
costs will obviously depend on the price offered by the clearing house.

Vollemaere says: “For some time, we have had the [prime broker][6]
versus clearing debate where prime brokerage has been much cheaper as a
form of access, but costs are increasing for all and UMR [uncleared
margin rules] will further impact this market over the next two years.

“The clearing house that prices itself to compete with prime brokers
will win the lion's share of the cleared FX market.”

  

> Central clearing is more efficient than bilateral trading as market
participants can net their exposures with a single counterparty and
settle variation margin on a net basis  
>

>

>  - Sunil Cutinho, CME Clearing

  

Eurex Clearing’s longer-term plan is to develop a cleared FX liquidity
pool as providers are attracted by lower capital and margin costs. The
challenge it and other clearing houses face is ensuring that multiple
exchange venues offering the same services does not lead to fragmented
liquidity.

There is a view that central clearing offers more certainty or
visibility to market participants and will drive what is a large over-
the-counter (OTC) market into a more transparent and standardized model.

CCPs require market participants to post initial margin as a performance
bond and settle current exposures at least once per day as their
positions are marked to market. [In CME’s][7] futures and [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/)
markets, mark to market occurs twice a day, so gains and losses don’t
accumulate in the system.

“Central clearing is more efficient than bilateral trading as market
participants can net their exposures with a single counterparty and
settle variation margin on a net basis,” says Sunil Cutinho, president
at CME Clearing.

“Our centralized FX clearing also offers portfolio margining
opportunities between cleared OTC FX and exchange-listed FX futures and
[options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/), with margin savings of up to 90% against emerging-market
futures and 56% against G10 futures.”

However, the interbank structure is well established with standard
contracts and continuous linked settlement, meaning banks operate with
low risk between each other.

### Motivation

A powerful motivation for promoting central clearing is that the central
counterparties ([exchanges][8]) have seen pressure on revenues from
trading in their traditional product offerings and appreciate that even
a modest share of the FX market would be extremely lucrative.

![Jason-Hughes-ADSS-160x186][9]  
  
---  
  
 _Jason Hughes,  
ADSS_  
  
Greater use of cross-currency swap transaction clearing is potentially
another step towards central clearing becoming the prevalent credit
model in FX.

However, Jason Hughes, global head of sales at ADSS, warns that there is
still a long way to go.

“With transaction reporting requirements, we are seeing more visibility
within the traditional OTC space and therefore an element of increased
transparency without a centralized counterparty system,” he says.

“Deutsche Börse has been active with acquisitions in the FX trading
space. Eurex only has only a small number of banks connected, though,
and this will need to grow significantly to really affect the OTC
interbank business.”

  

   1. /v-78f33e7c792c53e4937f2fa934b2e21e/Media/images/euromoney/currencies-2/euros_dollars_pounds_notes-780.png
   2. /v-c474d2860d963458d3ede8c9a79f604e/Media/images/euromoney/people-18/Jon-Vollemaere2017-160x186.jpg
   3. www.euromoney.com/article/b14mpvpxryw97r/fx-r5fx-to-launch-new-clearing-model-as-ndf-trades-soar
   4. /v-7e961400988380836b45164124f21be2/Media/images/euromoney/people-16/Paddy-Boyle-160x186.jpg
   5. www.euromoney.com/article/b12yz8xpggzn4h/fx-[options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/)-clearing-platforms-finally-nearing-launch
   6. www.euromoney.com/article/b1f45jwdqnk0ml/uncleared-margin-rules-unlikely-to-clarify-clearing-migration
   7. www.euromoney.com/article/b1b6zjdcpm4gfr/cme-initiatives-coalesce-around-spot-fx-basis-spreads
   8. www.euromoney.com/article/b157pw5s6621sy/exchanges-face-variety-challenge-in-quest-for-more-fx-business
   9. /v-3c9babada53eea9b0e7272503b9e2925/Media/images/euromoney/people-26/Jason-Hughes-ADSS-160x186.jpg