+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-02"
description = "FX HedgePool takes swaps approach to peer-to-peer forex"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "FX HedgePool takes swaps approach to peer-to-peer forex"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

![arrow-against-tide-sole-lone-780.jpg][1]

  

[Peer-to-peer (P2P) FX providers][2] have struggled to convince
corporates to cut their ties with banks they have lending or other
corporate finance relationships, despite the promise of lower charges.

A number of providers have given up and [changed their business
model][3].

So, there is inevitable curiosity when a new entrant hits the market –
especially one whose founder admits that P2P matching in FX has been
attempted numerous times during the past decade with little or no
success.

Will [FX HedgePool][4] be any different?

![Jay_Moore-USE-160x186.png][5]  
  
---  
  
_Jay Moore,  
FX HedgePool_  
  
Yes, says CEO and founder Jay Moore, who argues that previous efforts
focused exclusively on spot flow, where the trading requirements are
typically a response to something else that has happened in the
portfolio and need to be executed within a very short timeframe.

“We have taken a different approach by focusing on the swaps market and,
more specifically, the monthly roll requirements of passive FX hedging
programmes,” he says.

These swaps are relatively predictable, since most passive hedging
programmes are mandated to maintain a fixed hedging [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) at all times,
usually with forward contracts rolling on a monthly or quarterly basis.

This should give FX HedgePool a chance to pull together a group of
clients with predictable flows that naturally offset each other every
month.

The firm’s customers will still rely on the credit and settlement
[functions](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/basic-functions/) provided by their banks, but once these banks determine their
baseline costs for supporting the credit and settlement of these trades,
Moore says they will be able to monetize it without additional costs
related to managing market risk.

### Fresh impetus

What do other market participants make of this?

![Claude-Goulet 160x186.jpg][6]  
  
---  
  
_Claude Goulet,  
Siege FX_  
  
Claude Goulet, CEO of Siege FX, which is developing an FX matching
system, says the struggles of P2P currency matching providers have more
to do with the dependence of medium-sized and smaller corporate
organizations on their lending providers, who seek to bundle FX flow and
hedging services with balance-sheet provision.

Asset manager Vanguard executed its first transaction on FX HedgePool at
the end of January. Goulet reckons this is a sign that P2P trading could
be about to receive fresh impetus.

“Initiatives aimed at helping large corporates transact more efficiently
will gain traction as banks become more enthusiastic partners,” he says.

“Banks see opportunities to monetize client relationships and ISDAs
beyond trading as principal, such as agency execution and credit
intermediation.”

Jeremy Thomson-Cook, international payments specialist at Equals
(formerly FairFX) reckons improvements in technology, the domination of
FX trading by a few large banks and a heightened need to maintain
anonymity will encourage more asset managers to trade P2P.

![Philippe Gelis Kantox 160x186][7]  
  
---  
  
 _Philippe Gelis,  
Kantox_  
  
What corporates look for is transparency, immediate liquidity in any
currency pair and the technology to automate FX risk management and
[optimize](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/17/added-genetic-algorithm-for-trading/) execution, says Philippe Gelis, CEO of Kantox, an FX fintech.

“Matching trades has never been a strong argument for corporates,” he
says. “The largest banks hardly match more than 25% of their own order
book, so matching a large proportion of trades is not realistic.”

This indifference to how trades are matched motivated Kantox to stop
offering P2P FX services.

“In retail (remittance), there are probably some clients who like the
peer-to-peer philosophy, but in the end it is a mere marketing point
that provides no real value to the end-client,” adds Gelis.

![Paul-Byrne 2020-160x186.jpg][8]  
  
---  
  
 _Paul Byrne,  
CurrencyFair_  
  
Customers operating within narrow windows are more focused on cost,
speed and quality of service, agrees CurrencyFair CEO Paul Byrne.

“For those customers who have more time to make a trade and use our
marketplace product to set their own rate, they are matching with their
peers, so trust in the other party is critical,” he says.

### Execution costs

What all clients should care about is their execution costs, which
cannot be explained by price spreads alone. Understanding how liquidity
is accessed, what information leakage it produces and the impact on
prices is important in this context, and the use of transaction cost
analysis (TCA) services has grown substantially in recent years as a
result.

“As we have seen in the equities and securities markets, peer-to-peer or
crossing networks have become important sources of alternative liquidity
for the buy-side community,” says Siege FX’s Goulet.

“When compared with these other assets, FX has a more homogeneous set of
instruments and a greater diversity of participants. This provides a
very interesting opportunity.”

  

   1. /v-7092a88881536059ebaf723a57bb1666/Media/images/euromoney/stock-images-20/arrow-against-tide-sole-lone-780.jpg
   2. www.euromoney.com/article/b12kmcf93z29xq/peer-to-peer-fx-providers-pitch-corporates
   3. www.euromoney.com/article/b18jtdkqqfws5j/why-p2p-fx-hype-could-be-fading
   4. fxhedgepool.com/
   5. /v-0501fc6fef1c382f6a772543c6313cbf/Media/images/euromoney/people-28/Jay_Moore-USE-160x186.png
   6. /v-3d8d9ab712826f3e9e185e17e298dd65/Media/images/euromoney/people-28/Claude-Goulet 160x186.jpg
   7. /v-22f8e4ec7a5509bd74c7d590be1bc8be/Media/images/euromoney/magazine/sept-19-1/Philippe Gelis Kantox 160x186.jpg
   8. /v-582603bd0862a12f763c12b388013f2b/Media/images/euromoney/people-28/Paul-Byrne 2020-160x186.jpg