+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-26"
description = "EMS survey highlights FX traders’ platform predicament"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EMS survey highlights FX traders’ platform predicament"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=23.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

![maze-errors-success-780][1]

A survey [published in August by the Finance Hive][2] offered an
opportunity for FX traders to outline what they want from vendors of
[EMS platforms][3].

Among their priorities was more front-to-back and multi-asset
integration in the next generation of platforms, as well as more open
architecture.

Vendors of platforms play an important role given the trend towards buy
rather than build on the buy side. Only 7% of respondents to the survey
Global Pulse: FX Platforms reported using an in-house platform.

Front-to-back and multi-asset integration would clearly be useful, but
is not without complications.

The use of a single system would be likely to increase the number of
workarounds and [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) operational challenges faced by traders and middle
office due to technological compromises made in trying to be a one-size-
fits-all solution.

  

> The risks of implementing a replacement front-to-back infrastructure
in a ‘big bang’ manner are just too high for most businesses to
contemplate  
>

>

>  - Simon Wilson-Taylor, EBS Institutional

  

It is difficult for any vendor to be best of breed across the whole
investment lifecycle from front to back, or across all asset classes
horizontally.

While it is possible to build front-to-back systems, it is often
difficult to buy and implement such systems, and almost every firm
instead tends to buy components that they replace or upgrade one at a
time, explains Simon Wilson-Taylor, head of EBS Institutional.

“The risks of implementing a replacement front-to-back infrastructure in
a ‘big bang’ manner are just too high for most businesses to
contemplate,” he says. “There has been more work done in the multi-asset
class arena.

“There is often still a dilution of functionality, but for many firms
the compromise is worthwhile if the system is best of breed in their
core asset class.”

Front-to-back workflow has been an area of focus in recent years for
FlexTrade, an execution management firm, which has translated into
connectivity to new [order management system (OMS)][4] providers, added
functionality and a new middle-office tool to facilitate post-trade
requirements.

![Vikas-Srivastava-160x186][5]  
  
---  
  
 _Vikas Srivastava,  
Integral_  
  
Given the ever-increasing need to do more with less, even at the largest
asset management firms, an EMS provider’s ability to provide end-to-end
workflow solutions is vital, according to Vikas Srivastava, chief
revenue officer at Integral, an FX technology firm.

“This approach has produced some innovative front-to-back solutions,
such as [automated](https://www.fintechee.com/features/automated-forex-trading/) batching of orders and [automated](https://www.fintechee.com/features/automated-forex-trading/) execution cycles for
the buy side,” he says.

The platform at Virtu, another financial technology firm, combines
multi-asset EMS and [transaction cost analysis (TCA)][6] with algo wheel
– an [automated](https://www.fintechee.com/features/automated-forex-trading/) routing process that assigns a broker algo to orders from
a pre-configured list – conditional block trading, RFQ-hub (a multi-
asset platform for global listed and OTC assets), [best execution
tools][7] and commission management.

![Mike Loggia 160x186][8]  
  
---  
  
 _Mike Loggia,  
Virtu_  
  
Mike Loggia, the firm’s head of workflow technology, says he sympathizes
with buy-side clients struggling to achieve multi-asset integration.

“Our EMS is different because we are able to leverage our in-house
global FIX connectivity network,” he adds.

Respondents to the Finance Hive survey also asked for improved open
architecture to support customization and ease of integration. This is
already a feature of FlexTrade’s platform, says Vinay Trivedi, head of
FX for Asia-Pacific.

![Vinay-Trivedi-2018-160x186][9]  
  
---  
  
 _Vinay Trivedi,  
FlexTrade_  
  
“We offer EMS, OMS and TCA solutions with the flexibility to connect to
a third-party service of the client’s choice,” he adds. “This helps
clients create an eco-system to manage flows and achieve best
execution.”

The report notes that the integration of trading systems is sometimes
constrained more by business interests than by technology and that asset
managers can help their cause by working with current and potential
technology partners to identify potential obstacles as early as
possible.

Wilson-Taylor at EBS Institutional adds: “The most successful
integration projects occur when the asset manager takes an active role
in bringing all parties together.”

### TCA challenge

According to Finance Hive’s research, platforms frequently fall short
when it comes to TCA and their ability to host algos.

When they were built, the main technology challenge these platforms had
to solve was messaging – in a pre-FIX era. As a result, infrastructure
is often mostly based around messaging and does not inherently collect
data very well, while the limited data in the proprietary messaging
protocol is hard to extract.

“Those platforms will always be behind in this area until they
completely re-architect themselves, as their current models simply do
not collect the necessary data,” concludes Wilson-Taylor.

“Bolting on other TCA providers – through acquisition or otherwise –
will not solve the problem.”

FX Connect and FXall were the most widely used platforms, according to
the survey, with more than 50% of respondents having at least one of
these platforms on their desk. The next most widely used platform was
Bloomberg FXGO, which was used on 11% of desks, followed by FlexTrade
with 9%.

The traders surveyed said FXall and FX Connect lagged behind other
systems when it came to TCA provision and their ability to host algos,
but scored strongly on integration and cost, with FX Connect also
performing well on post-integration support.

FlexTrade scored well on provision of TCA and ability to host algos, but
less so on integration and post-integration support.

  

   1. /v-f39fe325275a3cfff8a27ae6405e2010/Media/images/euromoney/stock-images-18/maze-errors-success-780.jpg
   2. www.thehive-network.com/the-global-pulse-fx-platforms-report/
   3. www.euromoney.com/article/b12knfxf95j97s/execution-management-systems-come-of-age
   4. www.euromoney.com/article/b12kq9ztcmqgpr/fx-order-management-systems-come-of-age
   5. /v-8be3dc2c409e861ad8ef81e0d2613d56/Media/images/euromoney/people-18/Vikas-Srivastava-160x186.gif
   6. www.euromoney.com/article/b16qpjhrpdh048/fx-tca-use-creeps-up-but-benefits-still-evolving
   7. www.euromoney.com/article/b16y8c8f6l3c7m/fx-execution-leads-liquidity-as-biggest-issue-for-traders-jpmorgan
   8. /v-2efa6c7c99561a00ad37695b3121042b/Media/images/euromoney/people-26/Mike Loggia 160x186.jpg
   9. /v-dcb0931da655de624350ca4f787d7176/Media/images/euromoney/people-24/Vinay-Trivedi-2018-160x186.jpg