+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-06"
description = "China’s RMB is less popular as it ages"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "China’s RMB is less popular as it ages"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

![RMB-dollar-rolls-renminbi-R-780.jpg][1]

  

When financial messaging provider Swift published its latest RMB Tracker
in late January, almost no one noticed.

For good reason. Anyone not focused on US politics or Australian fires
was fretting about the [growing threat of coronavirus][2].

While too late to prevent the pathogen escaping into the wider world,
China has pumped $22 billion into its markets and cut banks’ reserve
ratios. [More monetary and fiscal stimulus will surely follow][3].

However, it’s worth backtracking to Swift’s January report. That it
garnered little traction doesn’t matter: it’s what it contains that
matters.

[Reading the title][4], you’d assume China’s currency, the renminbi, was
well on track to being an international currency. Yet since its
[inclusion in the IMF’s basket of special drawing rights][5] in October
2016, the RMB’s star has, if anything, waned.

In December 2017, Swift reckoned it to be the fifth largest payments
currency, with a global market share of 1.61%. Two years later, that
number had risen slightly to 1.94%, yet the RMB slipped in the [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/)s
to sixth behind the Canadian dollar, with Australia’s and even Hong
Kong’s dollar nipping at its heels.

In international payments, [the yuan][6] is eighth, exactly where it was
two years ago, while its share of the global trade finance market has
shrunk, alarmingly so, to 1.46% in December, against 2.45% two years
earlier, while the US dollar has gained in strength, its hegemony
unchecked.

That’s quite a kick in the teeth for Asia’s largest economy, and the
world’s biggest exporter and trader.

### Hot and cold

Or is it? Anyone who does business in China knows well its ability to be
headstrong yet pragmatic. Beijing often pushes to get what it wants and
then judiciously weighs up its next step.

As a decision-making apparatus, it can run hot and cold on issues,
depending on who within the party machine has clout, the president’s
ear, or both.

[Zhou Xiaochuan][7] had plenty of the first but less of the second, so
in his last years as governor of the central bank, he often used the
internationalization of the yuan as a threat-gesture.

  

> China believes it wants a global currency, but is it willing to pay
any price to get that? I would say no  
>

>

>  - Mike Pettis, Peking University

  

“It was a tactic, used by reformers to force state firms to be more
efficient,” says Michael Taylor, Asia-Pacific chief credit officer at
Moody’s.

Since Zhou left office in 2018, talk of the RMB as a reserve currency
has waned perceptibly.

There are good reasons for this. Beijing has bigger fish to fry, whether
[riots on its periphery][8], [ballooning debts][9] or hostility from
protectionist governments[ in the US][10] and Europe.

Hong Kong, which accounts for 75% of RMB-denominated payments, was hit
by riots for much of last year, directed in part at throttling Chinese
control.

### Russia

Even allies are downbeat about its prospects. For years, Moscow’s state
media trumpeted the RMB as the coming currency, yet when asked in
November, Vladimir Putin said tartly that Russian firms and banks were
“not interested” in raising money in renminbi, pointing to its limited
convertibility. Some reality check.

Russia’s president, not for the first time, is an able appraiser of
weakness. China clearly wants the kudos that comes with having a globe-
trotting currency: a truly international yuan would allow it to play
power-politics with Washington, and give it a valuable offensive and
defensive weapon when settling all manner of financial and economic
disputes.

However, is it willing to incur risk to embrace reward? No, says Mike
Pettis, a professor of finance at Peking University’s Guanghua School of
Management.

“China believes it wants a global currency, but is it willing to pay any
price to get that?” he asks. “I would say no – you can’t have a global
currency without scrapping capital controls, and that would leave it
vulnerable to all manner of external financial shocks and crises.”

  

   1. /v-f2b90cce0bbd4eef1a5a1cd7d046665d/Media/images/euromoney/reuters-10/RMB-dollar-rolls-renminbi-R-780.jpg
   2. www.euromoney.com/article/b1k3kfdhxhqhkm/[history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/)-lessons-from-2003-for-pathogen-hit-asian-markets
   3. www.euromoney.com/article/b13228h6nvq1dz/china-stimulus-splits-analysts
   4. file:///C:/Users/pcrowney/Downloads/rmb_tracker_january2020_slides.pdf
   5. www.euromoney.com/article/b12kptvy8j2r1f/fx-rmb-joins-the-sdr-basket
   6. www.euromoney.com/article/b12klbwf41nr17/the-future-of-the-rmb-special-focus
   7. www.euromoney.com/article/b1g0m2chvwx8cs/china-three-decades-six-leaders-zhou-xiaochuan
   8. www.euromoney.com/article/b1jsr3gxwl8wvf/can-hong-kong-endure-as-a-financial-centre
   9. www.euromoney.com/article/b1gjgl12bv5915/chinas-risk-score-flounders-on-trade-debt-and-demographics
   10. www.euromoney.com/article/b1gm39rvhhjch5/who-are-the-winners-in-the-uschina-trade-war