+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-23"
description = "Data doubts undermine treasury use of risk quantification"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Data doubts undermine treasury use of risk quantification"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

#  Data doubts undermine treasury use of risk quantification

COPYING AND DISTRIBUTING ARE PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMISSION OF THE
PUBLISHER: [ SContreras@Euromoney.com][1]

By:  Paul Golden  Published on:  Thursday, July 16, 2020

Lack of confidence in the quality of their information – and their
ability to analyze it – means many of the world’s largest companies
continue to eschew one of the techniques designed to assess and manage
FX risk.

![block-chain-question_780][2]

A recent report from Greenwich Associates found that 60% of [corporate
treasury professionals][3] felt it was not possible to establish best
practices for FX. Yet only one in five of the large companies surveyed
employ the variance at risk (VaR) framework – such as [earnings at risk
or cash flows at risk][4] – despite its suitability for precision
hedging strategies.

Cash flow at risk and earnings at risk take into account the relative
volatilities and correlations of individual currencies when designing
hedging strategies and incorporate cash flow and earnings implications
in addition to payments.

![Ken Monahan_160x186][5]  
  
---  
  
_Ken Monahan,  
Greenwich Associates_  
  
“However, the methodology requires relatively good information
management and access to sophisticated tools and datasets,” says Ken
Monahan, senior analyst in Greenwich Associates’ market structure group
and author of the report. “Many firms do not pursue the latter because
they do not believe they can achieve the former.”

One of the reasons put forward for the low level of VaR usage was that
companies have little confidence in the quality of their own data.

“The first step in a financial risk-management framework should be to
identify the underlying exposures,” says Sander de Vries, senior manager
at Netherlands-based treasury consultancy Zanders. “If the underlying
data is poor quality, the outcome of the risk quantification will not be
reliable. In addition to standardization and centralization of
processes, we also see that companies are taking initiatives to invest
in technologies related to big data and artificial intelligence to
improve data quality.”

He agrees that many corporates might not implement at risk calculations
in their financial risk management framework because they are more
difficult to make, and the outcome is more difficult to interpret.

“We feel it is best practice to use this quantification technique,” says
de Vries. “However, it should be complementary to other methodologies
which are more closely aligned to current hedging practice.”

### Risk management

Firms do not hedge to get a return but as an instrument of [FX risk
management at the corporate level][6]. Having a 95% confidence interval
for protecting your margins is something many corporates do not
necessarily feel comfortable with since their goal is to be FX neutral
under any market situation.

That is the view of Antonio Rami, chief growth officer at Kantox, who
recommends that companies design processes and adopt systems that allow
them to capture different types of data exposure such as forecasts, firm
commitments and balance-sheet items.

![Antonio-Rami-Kantox_160x186][7]  
  
---  
 __

Antonio Rami, Kantox  
  
“This is especially relevant for forecast data, since there is often
less trust about its quality and timing,” he says. “The solution here is
to break the ‘silos’ between commercial and treasury teams by improving
communication and designing joint processes.”

An FX management solution should also be implemented in order to capture
different types of exposure in real time, as well as their evolution
from forecasts to firm commitments to balance-sheet items.

“This is crucial in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of having full exposure visibility and
defining an optimal hedging [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/),” adds Rami.

Lack of reliable data and the complexity of the task at hand often leave
companies dependent on FX dealers, with treasurers asking their dealer
counterparties to conduct VaR analysis on their behalf.

“The tools used to generate these estimates and strategies are more
commonly used by banks than corporates, so it might be cheaper depending
on the frequency with which the company hedges according to these
principles,” says Monahan.

Treasurers asking dealer counterparties to run VaR is a way of
estimating downside risk for the positions the company carries with each
individual counterparty, but that still may not provide the desired
consolidated risk assessment picture, according to treasury consultant
Fabio Marcos.

“So this is in fact a partial substitute for a more robust risk-
management practice,” he says. “One way of addressing the issue of
insufficient reliable data or not having access to reliable data in a
timely manner is centralization through automation and integration of
different sources, such as accounts receivables and accounts payable.”

  

> It does not change the perception of VaR as a tool that is more
suitable for active asset managers seeking a rate of return than for
corporate risk managers worried about reducing the impact of FX  
>

>

>  - Antonio Rami, Kantox

  

“Treasurers should be able to calculate risks, but they have to separate
short-term risks from long-term risks,” observes Richard Cornielje,
director corporate customers at risk management technology company KYOS,
adding that lack of knowledge and limited internal communication often
hold back best practice.

Rami acknowledges that conducting proper VaR analysis requires market
data availability and analytical capabilities that are far more common
with dealer counterparties.

“However, this does not solve the underlying problem of exposure data
quality and it does not change the perception of VaR as a tool that is
more suitable for active asset managers seeking a rate of return than
for corporate risk managers who are more worried about reducing the
impact of FX in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of margins and reporting,” he concludes.

   1. mailto:SContreras@Euromoney.com
   2. /v-d521866b2a6b9977afd3b5f1428e1bcd/Media/images/euromoney/stock-images-22/block-chain-question_780.jpg
   3. www.euromoney.com/article/b1lxqc8j8pjmv2/making-treasury-great-again-covid-19-will-put-cashflows-into-the-boardroom
   4. www.euromoney.com/article/b1gxbxnqlmw2f2/treasurers-need-to-move-out-of-risk-management-comfort-zone
   5. /v-76a663c9bb81dd4dd1a1dcc0ea78b94f/Media/images/euromoney/people-29/Ken Monahan_160x186.jpg
   6. www.euromoney.com/article/b1hv4nr30vjy8t/corporates-revisit-[options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/)-for-reducing-fx-exposure
   7. /v-b2035b2020f6ad51097c775f2e509b0b/Media/images/euromoney/people-30/Antonio-Rami-Kantox_160x186.jpg