+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-20"
description = "Economic, political factors hamper EM currencies’ rebound"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Economic, political factors hamper EM currencies’ rebound"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

![wave-boat 780][1]

Variation in the performance of currencies has been a striking trend in
emerging markets since the start of the [coronavirus crisis][2]. Made
particularly noticeable by the extraordinary demand for US dollars when
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s liquidated positions across many asset classes in March, it
has persisted since then.

Analysis by Mosaic Smart Data shows that overall emerging market
currency liquidity during the period of May 20 to June 10 was at 66% of
its pre-Covid level.

![Phoenix-Kalen 160x186][3]  
  
---  
 __

Phoenix Kalen,  
Societe Generale  
  
Within specific pairs, USD/MXN average spreads were about four times
higher and liquidity had fallen by around half, while USD/ZAR liquidity
saw spreads double and liquidity also halve.

In contrast, USD/EUR volumes were 11% above the pre-Covid average.

Idiosyncratic risk, disparities in dollar liquidity access and external
funding needs, the extent of and capacity for currency intervention, and
the effectiveness of countries’ strategies for tackling Covid-19 are the
main reasons why the Brazilian real and the South African rand have
fallen much further than, for example, the Philippine peso.

The MSCI Emerging Market Currency Index for the period January to March
shows a 25% reduction in the value of the real against the dollar, while
the rand fell by 26% between the end of 2019 and the end of March this
year, whereas the Philippine peso was down by less than 1% over the same
period.

The real has been hammered by a combination of political turmoil, sharp
economic contraction and unclear outlook for recovery, as well as a
confused response to containing the pandemic, Phoenix Kalen, emerging
markets strategist at Societe Generale, tells Euromoney.

### Downgrade

The rand, meanwhile, suffered from the loss of South Africa’s last
investment grade credit rating, USD liquidity stress and escalating
fiscal woes.

Markets were quick to unwind long South African government bond
positions in anticipation of a Moody’s downgrade that came at the end of
March and meant that the country’s bonds would be excluded from the FTSE
Russell World Government Bond Index, says Barclays FX and EM macro
strategist, Nikolaos Sgouropoulos.

![Nikolaos-Sgouropoulos 160x186][4]  
  
---  
 __

Nikolaos Sgouropoulos,  
Barclays  
  
“Throughout most of the sell-off in March and April, EM Asia fared
better, likely reflecting the fact that the region went through the
virus earlier and support from increased stimulation by China,” he says.
“More recently, however, a [second wave of outbreaks in places like
China][5] and Korea, in addition to rising US-China tensions, has
muddied the outlook.”

The collapse in oil prices has weighed heavily on the Colombian peso and
the Russian rouble. But headwinds for the rouble were also soon overcome
by relatively high real rates and confidence in the macroeconomic setup,
according to Ebrahim Rahbari, global head of FX analysis and content at
Citi and the bank’s chief G10 currency strategist.

He tells Euromoney that he was also surprised by how resilient the
Philippine peso had been, since “other supportive factors such as
relatively limited government debt and deficits are notable, but not
drastically different from other peer countries.”

### Surprise

According to Daniel Tenengauzer, head of markets strategy at BNY Mellon,
the initial downward pressure on the Mexican peso (23% off its January 1
level against the dollar by the end of March, according to the MSCI
Emerging Market Currency Index) was a surprise.

“I did not expect to see so much movement, particularly in a country
whose fiscal health is pretty robust,” he says. “The central bank in
Mexico is usually extraordinarily reluctant to interfere in the market,
although it did come out with a few surprise cuts that slightly outpaced
the Fed.”

![Ebrahim-Rahbari 160x186][6]  
  
---  
 __

Ebrahim Rahbari, Citi  
  
Rahbari expects the rouble to outperform, but says that even though
valuations have adjusted a lot, it is still too early to buy currencies
in Latin America, and notably in [Brazil][7].

“This is due to major uncertainties and (by EM standards) unusually
aggressive monetary easing,” he tells Euromoney. “Within the region, we
see scope for outperformance for the Mexican and Colombian currencies.”

Barclays retains the view that higher risk premia in emerging markets
are needed and expects broad FX depreciation versus the dollar through
the third quarter of the year. The rebound in global growth remains
highly uncertain and is extremely important in determining whether or
not capital gets deployed to emerging markets.

Sgouropoulos says there will be continued high levels of
differentiation, with countries where currencies have already rallied
likely to underperform.

“Similarly, rising US-China tensions should keep risk premia in northern
Asian EM FX elevated and weigh on the respective regional currencies
[the South Korean won and the Taiwan dollar],” he adds.

  

> As the extent of global economic damage becomes clearer over the next
few months... emerging market currencies may encounter another period of
weakness before embarking on a more sustained recovery  
>

>

>  -  Phoenix Kalen, Societe Generale

  

Kalen acknowledges the partial recovery in emerging market currency
trading that has taken place over recent weeks, but warns that this
short-term rally, buoyed by the strength of global [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) responses,
will soon cease.

“As the extent of global economic damage becomes clearer over the next
few months, as economies struggle to balance easing lockdown
restrictions and battling the virus, and before an effective vaccine is
widely distributed, emerging market currencies may encounter another
period of weakness before embarking on a more sustained recovery,” she
concludes.

   1. /v-8535822dd5c2d9ea5d367b9345f44f9c/Media/images/euromoney/stock-images-22/wave-boat 780.jpg
   2. www.euromoney.com/article/b1kmxdq0w627n7/coronavirus-special-focus
   3. /v-e612e8e60899029b76f05433045f8f12/Media/images/euromoney/people-29/Phoenix-Kalen 160x186.jpg
   4. /v-48eb5c197124f38ec509e34787212cb5/Media/images/euromoney/people-29/Nikolaos-Sgouropoulos 160x186.jpg
   5. www.euromoney.com/article/b1kv4pxb6yhjts/coronavirus-returns-to-bite-china-again
   6. /v-97bd4f9c0483ad0d9785048ceec347bb/Media/images/euromoney/people-29/Ebrahim-Rahbari 160x186.jpg
   7. www.euromoney.com/article/b1kmvxw2m62y17/brazil-covid-19s-waves-begin-to-wash-up-on-latams-shores