+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-19"
description = "FX execution management systems: room for improvement"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "FX execution management systems: room for improvement"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

#  FX execution management systems: room for improvement

COPYING AND DISTRIBUTING ARE PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMISSION OF THE
PUBLISHER: [ SContreras@Euromoney.com][1]

By:  Paul Golden  Published on:  Tuesday, June 02, 2020

US users see weaknesses in transaction cost analysis and order
management integration.

![statistics_780][2]

  

FX execution management systems (EMSs) have generally stood up well
during the coronavirus pandemic, not least because of their ability to
deploy [algorithms](https://www.fintechee.com/algorithms-for-trading/) during periods of high volatility. But according to
research by The Finance Hive, a networking organization, North American
buy-side EMS users are not entirely happy.

They are not satisfied with order management system (OMS) integration and the availability of [transaction cost analysis][3] (TCA). Smooth OMS integration matters because of how much asset management workflow relies on feeding data between order and [execution management systems][4].

![Brad Bailey 2016 1-160x186][5]  
  
---  
 __

Brad Bailey,  
Celent  
  
“During the March madness in the markets we saw significant problems
caused by weak integration between EMS and OMS,” says Brad Bailey,
research director at Celent, a technology consultancy. “Depending on the
type of integration and the use of disparate systems, the explosion in
volume caused delays in getting position, increased risk and limited
information.

“In a time of rapid consolidation of FX trading technology, this is a
key priority.”

Respondents to The Finance Hive’s survey also said they wanted to see
TCA transformed from a box-ticking exercise into a tool that adds real
value to the [execution process][6]. The [rise in algo usage][7] since
January has further increased the focus on TCA.

### Priority

Ken Monahan, senior analyst at Greenwich Associates, reckons OMS
integration has only recently become a priority for some firms, many of
which may have believed that their own front ends might function as a
_de facto_  EMS. He also notes that his firm’s own research has found
that more than one in five users already rely on platforms for their TCA
reports.  

![Ken Monahan_160x186][8]  
  
---  
 __

Ken Monahan,  
Greenwich Associates  
  
Platforms are certainly in a strong position to provide trading insights
– both pre-trade and post-trade – as they see a variety of liquidity
providers (LPs) and clients. Bailey says the key is how data can be used
and shared. “It is also sensible to look at partnerships between
platforms and specialized analytics providers,” he adds.

All of which means it is unsurprising that more than three quarters of
the trading heads surveyed for the report were looking to invest in a
new platform. How have platform providers reacted to their demands?

Vikas Srivastava, chief revenue officer at Integral, says his firm’s
solution was designed in partnership with a major OMS provider to allow
asset managers to automatically create, execute and allocate portfolios
within set parameters and across set time periods defined by the trader.

“This integration ensures workflow is completely [automated](https://www.fintechee.com/features/automated-forex-trading/), including
receiving individual trades from the OMS, netting the trades at a mid-
rate, executing as per detailed parameters and returning each individual
allocation back to the OMS,” he adds.

![Vikas Srivastava 160x186][9]  
  
---  
 __

Vikas Srivastava,  
Integral  
  
“It is important for platform providers to look at automating workflow
between an EMS and OMS whilst still meeting stringent Erisa
requirements.” Erisa is the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974, which governs private sector pension plans in the US.

Connectivity is vital. A trader sitting on the centralized execution
desk at a long-only asset manager or hedge fund needs to be able to
transact whole orders or slices from the EMS as flexibly as possible.
They would also require access to the widest range of traditional
brokers and/or block venues, and to have the resulting executions – and,
ideally, additional order-related data – flowing back immediately into
the OMS.

“OMS-EMS integration has traditionally stayed within the parameters of
the FIX [Financial Information Exchange] protocol,” says Chris Hollands,
head of European and North America sales at TradingScreen. (The FIX
protocol is intended to standardize electronic communications in the
financial services industry.)

![Chris Hollands_160x186][10]  
  
---  
 __

Chris Hollands,  
TradingScreen  
  
“But we have seen rising demand among the buy-side for the ability to
transmit other types of data, such as broker restrictions, allocations
and fees and commissions, from the OMS to the EMS – and in some cases to
allow for amendments made within the latter to flow back into the
former.”

Monahan suggests there is a strong desire on the part of platforms to
improve their TCA offering, partly because that makes their platform
stickier for clients and also because, as the arbiters of best
execution, they can prove the value of their platforms more effectively.

Hollands at TradingScreen says that his platform has experienced
increased demand for customization, including custom benchmarks to
provide more relevant insights to specific trading patterns and
processes. “We are also seeing more appetite for the results of post-
trade execution performance to feed dynamically into the pre-trade
analytical process,” he says.

  

   1. mailto:SContreras@Euromoney.com
   2. /v-9ec251286d77f836f82d752ad9325ec9/Media/images/euromoney/stock-images-22/statistics_780.jpg
   3. www.euromoney.com/article/b1hy8gzxsj6jy8/independent-tca-still-a-challenge-in-fx-market
   4. www.euromoney.com/article/b1gn20zdwhmjwr/ems-survey-highlights-fx-traders-platform-predicament
   5. /v-978fbc7191fad6961a9f6be04f42ddf3/Media/images/euromoney/people-13/Brad Bailey 2106 1-160x186.jpg
   6. www.euromoney.com/article/b1bt1h7ms00nrk/fx-the-rise-of-quality-execution-analysis
   7. www.euromoney.com/article/b1lwbwhcnn3f76/adapt-and-thrive-how-fx-algos-are-coping-with-volatility
   8. /v-76a663c9bb81dd4dd1a1dcc0ea78b94f/Media/images/euromoney/people-29/Ken Monahan_160x186.jpg
   9. /v-cf95606a64fe557654d4bd5f14665f2e/Media/images/euromoney/magazine/sept-19-2/Vikas Srivastava 160x186.jpg
   10. /v-fa4a7a5c1cd10eb41447ac8c6f01d3d6/Media/images/euromoney/people-29/Chris Hollands_160x186.jpg