+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-06"
description = "Liquidity-hunting algos the next big thing in FX NDFs"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Liquidity-hunting algos the next big thing in FX NDFs"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=14.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

#  Liquidity-hunting algos the next big thing in FX NDFs

COPYING AND DISTRIBUTING ARE PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMISSION OF THE
PUBLISHER: [ SContreras@Euromoney.com][1]

By:  Paul Golden  Published on:  Friday, August 23, 2019

Other players are expected to follow Goldman Sachs and BNP Paribas in
introducing algos designed to source both internal and external
liquidity for FX NDFs, despite limited liquidity in many non-deliverable
currencies.

How to tap liquidity in non-deliverable forwards (NDFs) has been
exercising the minds of FX houses this year. In February, Goldman Sachs
introduced a smart algo for accessing internal and external liquidity
NDFs. Four months later, BNP Paribas went live with its first NDF algo
currency pairs (USD/INR and USD/KRW).

According to Ralf Donner, head of client FX algos at Goldman Sachs,
there has been a consistent demand from clients – particularly in Asia –
to trade NDFs in the same way as deliverable currencies.

“The most commonly traded currencies are USD/KRW and USD/INR to the
1-month date, with USD/TWD and USD/IDR also offered,” he says. “Our
focus is extending the product range to provide all algo styles from
TWAP [time-weighted average price], to sweep-to-fill, to the most
passive execution.”

![Asif-Razaq 160x186][2]  
  
---  
  
 _Asif Razaq, BNP Paribas_  
  
Asif Razaq, BNP Paribas’s global head of FX algorithmic execution, says
that clients can see the cost benefits of using execution algos for
deliverable currencies compared to trading against a traditional risk
transfer price. Unsurprisingly, therefore, they want to be able to trade
non-deliverable currencies the same way.

“The electronification of the NDF inter-bank market has created an ideal
environment for the introduction of an NDF algo,” he explains. “However,
because the NDF market is not as electronically mature as the market for
deliverable currencies, the algo we developed had to be able to cope
with relatively thin liquidity across a smaller number of venues.”

The algos introduced by Goldman Sachs and BNP Paribas access both
internal and external market liquidity. “In addition, we are not
building simple algos such as TWAPs [which aim to achieve the time-
weighted average price calculated from the time the order is submitted
until it completes],” says Razaq. “We have extended the concept of
adaptive algos that can read the market and self-adapt in real time.”

The [most recent Bank of England FX turnover survey][3] indicated that
after strong growth from 2016 to 2018, NDF volumes fell slightly between
October 2018 and April 2019.

The obvious explanation for this levelling-off in growth is volatility
in the market, where extreme volatility events encouraged more risk-off
strategies – something that was understandable in light of the level of
volatility in some of the illiquid currency pairs traded via NDFs.

### Uncertainty

Jeff Ward, global head of EBS, a platform owned by CME Group, notes that
many trades are covering short-term risk rather than taking long-term
positions, given the uncertainty surrounding the geopolitical and
macroeconomic environment.

![Henry_Wilkes_2018-160x186][4]  
  
---  
 _Henry Wilkes, Point Group_  
  
“Last year there was a general view of increasing US interest rates and
a stronger dollar,” he says. “According to our customers, many of the
big international funds are now sitting on the sidelines waiting for a
clearer direction on the international outlook. Last year was an outlier
in emerging market trade volumes, so a stabilization or slight pullback
is expected.”

As economies – and hence trade from countries with non-deliverable
currencies – grow, there will naturally be a higher demand for NDFs,
adds Paul Clarke, head of FX venues at Refinitiv.

“NDFs at the most liquid dates have over the last few years been
increasingly traded electronically and there are also regulatory changes
that are having an impact on volumes, including Mifid II and the
uncleared margin rules [UMR] that have helped [grow the percentage of
NDF trades that are cleared][5],” he says.

Liquidity providers have also become more comfortable pricing
electronically because they have better quality data, which gives the
market more credibility.

These factors have helped to drive down pricing spreads and banks are
particularly under pressure to compete in this space, says Point Group’s
head of FX, Henry Wilkes. “We have also seen the introduction of non-
bank [liquidity provider](https://www.fintechee.com/services/liquidity-provider/)s,” he adds.

![Curtis-Pfeiffer-160x186][6]  
  
---  
 _Curtis Pfeiffer, Pragma_  
  
[Pragma introduced execution algos for NDFs in 2017][7] and the firm’s
chief business officer, Curtis Pfeiffer, says he isn’t surprised to see
other firms reacting to client need. “With such a data-driven focus on
best execution in the FX market, there is increasing demand from buy-
side firms for execution [algorithms](https://www.fintechee.com/algorithms-for-trading/) to support NDFs.”

Razaq acknowledges that not all NDF currencies are electronically
mature. “We started with INR and KRW and extended the algo to cover PHP,
TWD and IDR and we are looking to add BRL by the end of the year,” he
says. “But there is not enough electronic liquidity in the other NDF
currencies, which will continue to be traded by voice.”  

Wilkes reckons that managing sizeable risk in NDFs can be a real
challenge, one that is often best left to traders who are experienced
and have a feel for market conditions.

“However, I would expect more players to launch NDF algos as market
activity becomes more robust and client demand for hedging emerging
market risk increases,” he concludes. “The NDF market is less fragmented
than the G10 deliverable currency market so it is more of a challenge to
access multiple sources of liquidity. Tapping into a bank’s own
liquidity makes sense.”

   1. mailto:SContreras@Euromoney.com
   2. /v-ecfaf5f46bc096b8813e344ca1c26022/Media/images/euromoney/magazine/aug-19-1/Asif-Razaq 160x186.jpg
   3. www.euromoney.com/article/b1d3b0smxp5ln5/bank-of-england-fx-data-show-shift-to-[options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/)-for-hedging
   4. /v-fc2e9ef6b911f60ad89a9c74ce7da81f/Media/images/euromoney/people-23/Henry_Wilkes_2018-160x186.png
   5. www.euromoney.com/article/b14mpvpxryw97r/fx-r5fx-to-launch-new-clearing-model-as-ndf-trades-soar
   6. /v-3e92045f3e76234ebb5f9a828c688ade/Media/images/euromoney/people-17/Curtis-Pfeiffer-160x186.jpg
   7. www.euromoney.com/article/b131k3xkkplk1s/fx-pragma-unleashes-algo-traders-on-ndf-market